---
title: 'Weekly Links #151'
date: '2019-03-09'
---

**Top 10 Links For 1-7/3**

1. [How Are Function Components Different from Classes?](https://overreacted.io/how-are-function-components-different-from-classes/)  
   **Dan Abramov**  
   Good article of Dan about differences between functional components and class components in React. He gives an example of accessing to props during asynchronous code and mentions the different behavior and the reason for it. I also think that it is important to notice that in functional components, the functions on the root level are being created in each render(except of some exceptions), which is a major difference from class components.
2. [Learning to Learn](https://css-tricks.com/learning-to-learn/)  
   **Sarah Drasner**  
   Learning constantly is a part of the job for developers. Sarah writes a deep-dive article about learning - how to organize it when learning the theories, how to implement it practically, and more.
3. [How to Enable React Strict Mode](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/react-strict-mode)  
   **Kent C. Dodds**  
   StrictMode is a tool of React for finding some potential problems in the code. It is a great option to identify issues in your application and third party libraries which you use. Kent gives more details about it.
4. [Don’t solve problems if you want to be a great manager](https://knowyourteam.com/blog/2019/03/06/dont-solve-problems-if-you-want-to-be-a-great-manager/)  
   **Claire Lew**  
   If someone asks you for help, the most simple thing to do is to solve the problem. Claire argues that a better way to handle those situations, is to ask questions which will lead the other person to solve the problem by itself. I agree with her, although it is very unintuitive for me.
5. [My Intuition on When to Use Custom React Hooks](https://frontarm.com/james-k-nelson/react-hooks-intuition/)  
   **James K Nelson**  
   In this post, James emphasizes that React hooks are not a replacement to state management libraries like Redux. He writes about the need saving a global data on a global place and I have to add that Redux is much more than this and gives you abilities like serialization of actions, time traveling and more.
6. [Scheduling in React](https://philippspiess.com/scheduling-in-react/)  
   **Philipp Spiess**  
   There are many situations during a react application when you want to change more than one visual item as a response to an action of the user. It can be hard to achieve a good user-experience of it, since JavaScript code runs in a single thread. Philipp writes about new API of React for solving this problem, which is supposed to become stable in second half of this year.
7. [Quality of Code is Quality of Life](https://www.mikebz.com/2019/03/quality-of-code-is-quality-of-life.html)  
   **Mike Borozdin**  
   In this focused post, Mike argues that there is a direct relation between code quality and life quality. I believe that it is our responsibility as developers to write quality code(up to some limit), even if it takes more time, and convince the management that this is the right thing to do for us and for the company.
8. [Why everyone should read support emails](https://medium.com/@simonschultzdk/why-everyone-should-read-support-emails-42ca2172e23e)  
   **Simon Schultz**  
   Simon writes about the importance of reading support emails from a manager's point of view. I can add from a developer perspective, that reading the content of tickets that are in engineering responsibility is valuable, especially if the person who distributes the tickets to developers is not technical. You can learn about issues in your last features, and see if there are issues that their solution should be unified.
9. [Microservices, Containers and Kubernetes in 10 minutes](https://gravitational.com/blog/microservices-containers-kubernetes/)  
   **Ev Kontsevoy**  
   Ev gives an introduction to microservices, and mentions containers and Kubernetes on the way. This is a great reference for people who only heard about it and still don't know what it means exactly.
10. [10 Lessons Learned Conducting Code Reviews](https://dev.to/jnschrag/10-lessons-learned-conducting-code-reviews-5di6)  
    **Jacque Schrag**  
    Jacque shares some tips and suggestions for better code reviews. I can relate to most of them, especially to tools and standards which can make the process easier, and have a professional and not personal attitude when checking the pull request. Also dedicated review time can be a good idea.
