---
title: 'Weekly Links #153'
date: '2019-03-23'
---

**Top 10 Links For 15-21/3**

1. [It’s pretty cool how Netlify CMS works with any flat file site generator](https://css-tricks.com/its-pretty-cool-how-netlify-cms-works-with-any-flat-file-site-generator/)  
   **Chris Coyier**  
   The site you are right now is static. For every post I write, I add a new Markdown file and write the content of the post in it. I use the VS Code editor where I can see a nice preview of the current file, being updated as I type. But what if there is an easier way to maintain those files? There is a way, using a CMS(Content Management System). Chris writes about the Netlify CMS, which adds an admin page to your site, where you can add and edit the content of the site, with a nice UI.
2. [Writing Resilient Components](https://overreacted.io/writing-resilient-components/)  
   **Dan Abramov**  
   Dan continues with his tradition of writing great blog posts. This article starts with Dan's opinion about using linter and prettier and continues with 4 design principles of React components. My conclusions from the first two principles are: Don't derive state from props, always relate to props on render and on dependencies of hooks, make your component fully-controlled or uncontrolled. My conclusions from the last two principles are: Always assume that your component may appear more than once, keep local state local and global state global.
3. [I Don’t Hate Arrow Functions](https://davidwalsh.name/i-dont-hate-arrow-functions)  
   **Kyle Simpson**  
   Arrow functions are controversial. There are a lot of opinions when to use them - always, sometimes, never... Kyle has some strong opinions about it, but this post is focused on an ESLint plugin that he built which contains configurable rules about the usage of arrow functions.
4. [Super simple start to serverless](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/super-simple-start-to-serverless)  
   **Kent C. Dodds**  
   Serverless is a hot trend during recent years. When your site is mostly static, but you need some server-side and don't want to deal with DevOps stuff, you can use AWS Lambdas, Cloud Functions for Firebase or Lambda functions on Netlify. Kent gives more details about using Netlify Lambda functions.

5) [React Router v5](https://reacttraining.com/blog/react-router-v5/)  
   **Michael Jackson**  
   A new version for React-Router was published last week. Although it is a major version, it is fully backward compatible with 4.x versions. Michael gives all the information about the changes in the new version which mainly includes some code improvements for supporting the latest versions of React and some new features.
6) [10 HTML Elements You Didn't Know You Needed](https://dev.to/emmawedekind/10-html-element-you-didnt-know-you-needed-3jo4)  
   **Emma Wedekind**  
   There a lot of types of HTML elements, while we mostly use `div`, `span` and if we are in a good day, so also `ul` and `li`. Emma represents some of the rare HTML elements that can be useful.
7) [React Function Components by Example](https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-function-component/)  
   **Robin Wieruch**  
   Functional components become the bread and butter of React. Robin wrote an extensive article about all the features of functional components. It is intended mostly for beginners but everyone may learn from it.
8) [Bethanye Blount on Helping People be the Most Badass Versions of Themselves](https://blog.coleadership.com/bethanye-blount-on-helping-people-be-the-most-badass-versions-of-themselves/)  
   **Jean Hsu, Edmond Lau**  
   An important characteristic of managers is the ability to get the best from their employees. Jean and Edmond had a conversation with Bethanye Blount, the CEO of Compaas, and give some insights from it. The starting point is that the manager doesn't need to "change" the employee but to maximize its strengths and minimize its weaknesses.
9) [An Introduction to Web Components](https://css-tricks.com/an-introduction-to-web-components/)  
   **Caleb Williams**  
   Web components are technology on the rise, which can be used side by side with other frameworks/libraries like React and Angular. Caleb wrote a series of articles about it. In this first article, he describes the building blocks - custom elements, shadow DOM and HTML Elements. It contains links to the next articles as well.
10) [How to create a Rails project with a React and Redux front-end](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-create-a-rails-project-with-a-react-and-redux-front-end-8b01e17a1db)  
    **Mark Hopson**  
    Combining Ruby on Rails and React on the same web application may seem non-trivial. Mark wrote a step-by-step tutorial for building a SPA(Single Page Application) with Rails and React together, using react-rails gem and react-router library.
