---
title: 'Weekly Links #217'
date: '2020-07-11'
---

## Articles

- **[Four Ways to Fetch Data in React](https://www.bitnative.com/2020/07/06/four-ways-to-fetch-data-in-react/)**

  - This article mentions different ways of fetching data in React.
  - In short, the ways are:
    - Directly in the component.
    - Directly in the component, while all the API methods are in a central place.
    - Using a custom hook.
    - Using a third-party library.
  - [Another interesting article from last week](https://dev.to/g_abud/why-i-quit-redux-1knl), also recommends to use a third-party library, and avoid using Redux for fetching data.

- **[Visualising Front-End Performance Bottlenecks](https://dev.to/dazn/visualising-front-end-performance-bottlenecks-4da6)**

  - Use `window.performance.mark()` for marking points in the code that you want to measure the time between them.
  - Use `window.performance.measure()` to activate a measure.
  - Look on the result of the measurement on Chrome Dev Tools to identify performance issues.

- **[Ten modern layouts in one line of CSS](https://web.dev/one-line-layouts/)**
  - A lot of examples for common CSS layouts and how to implement them.
  - The examples use CSS Grid and CSS Flexbox
  - There are short videos that show how the layout is being changed when the width of the browser is changed.

## Personal - React Opinions

- **When to use useCallback**

  - Don't use useCallback for every function inside a functional component.
  - Use sometimes useCallback if you pass a function as a prop to a child component. Exceptions to this rule are:
    - It is redundant if the child component has children prop, so it will be rendered anyway, or if the child is a native HTML element.
    - If you are sure that at least one of the dependencies of the callback will be different on every render, so the function will be created even with the useCallback wrapper.
  - Use useCallback when the function is used inside another useCallback/useEffect/useMemo, and it is defined as a dependency.

- **Where to save state**
  - Don't save data that is relevant to one specific component in a global store. For example, `isLoading` flag during a data fetch which was triggered for a specific component.
  - If you for some reason have a state in a parent component that doesn't impact all its children, check if you need to protect the other children with the `memo` API.
  - Use controlled components when you are in a form. You will probably need the selected values on the `onSubmit` function, so you need access to the current values on the form component. Therefore, it is better to save the state of the current values on the form component level.
